#What's new in Android

1. Constraint Layout
  a. Brand new layout
  b. available in un-bundled library
  c. Backward compatible to Gingerbread
  d. Features-
    1. Shows correct margin
    2. Auto alignment
    3. Designed runs at 60 fps, so realtime feedback
    4. Shows preview of constraints
    5. Autoconnect
    6. Automatic inference of constraints
2. Multiple windows
  a. Split Screen
    1. Side by side
    2. Top to bottom
    3. Opt in by default, API to prevent it
    4. API for default and minimum sizing
    5. API for window mode chnage notification
    6. API to check if in multi window mode
    7. Intent to ask for another activity to be side by side yours
  b. Picture in Picture mode - Android TV
3. Drag and Drop
  a. Permission driven
  b. API to start and cancel the action
  c. drag shadow - update the thumbnail of item being dragged
4. Notifications
  a. New templates
  b. Bundled notification - group notification together
  c. Direct reply
  d. Quick settings is editable
  e. Display size - changes DPI of device at runtime
  f. 0.85 to 1.45
  g. Avoid px
  h. support sw320p
  i. Text size chnages the size of text, display size chnages the size of everything on UI
5. Locales
  a. Select multiple languages and reorder them
  b. New languages and variants
6. Doze mode
  a. Since Marshmallow - restricts network, services, defers jobs, syncs, alarms
  b. Kicks in screen is off, stationary and on battery
  c. Maintainence window (exponentially increasing) to allow activities to do work
  d. Maintainence window is followed by doze modes
  e. In N the stationary condition is removed
7. Project Svelte (System Health check)
  a. All apps start check, no action sleep. Activity manager has to start and kill app
  b. ConnectivityManager.CONNECTIVITY_ACTION, Camera.ACTION_NEW_VIDEO, Camera.ACTION_NEW_IMAGE - Goodbye
  c. Jobscheduler - New API for Ask when content changed when the job is scheduled
8. Data Saver
  a. User can tell the system the amount of data to be used
  b. Tell which app allowed to use data or not
9. Direct Boot
  a. If system reboots, on lock screen, some apps allowed to run so you get notification like message etc
10. Specific directory access permission
11. Android for work
  a. Work mode - Turn off apps related to work mode
  b. Work Challenge - PIN only for 1 work App, once entered, applicable system wide
12. Runtime
  a. Faster interpreter 
  b. JIT
  c. Ahead of Time (AOT) compilation - Hotspots only
  d. All 3 at same time
  e. Improves install time
13. New packages
  a. ICU4J - Unicode and globalization support
  b. FunctionalInterface - for functional programming
  c. java.util.function
  d. java.util.stream
  e. To use Java 8 - switch to new Jack compiler
  f. Default and Static interface methods - not backward compatible
  g. Add new methods and provide default implementation in existing interface
  h. Useful to move APIs forward without breaking existing code
  i. Also useful for Adapter pattern
  j. Static methods on interfaces
14. Repeating annotations
15. Java Audio Latency 
  a. Reduce audio latency in Java
  b. 40 - 70 ms
  c. set flag AudioAttributes.FLAG_LOW_LATENCY
  d. Dynamically resize buufers if frequent underuns
16. Renderscripts
17. OpenGL-ES
  a. Android extension pack
18. VULCAN
  a. Low level graphics, lower than OpenGL
  b. Driver - also available on WIndows & Linux
19. adb shell
  a. More features of full shell
  b. performance improvements
20. NDK
  a. CLANG 2.8 - C interface for LLVM
  b. GCC deprecated
  c. ARM toochain default to ARM7 architecture
21. VR
22. Support library
  a. Night Mode
23. UI Goodies
  a. Vector Drawable perfoemance improvements - 20 to 90%
  b. FloatProperty/IntProperty
24. Android Instant Apps
  
  
